The first case that we are going to analyze in detail is the case of the circus of the sun.
The circus of the sun is one of the examples, perhaps the most common example that is always used with the strategy of blue light.
It is a case that is also analyzed in the book and it is a case that helps to illustrate very well the use of all the methodology,
we have already seen the value curve, we already know what the concept of innovation in value is, the matirrice.
Well, let's put it into practice to see what the circus of the sun did to create its blue ocean.
So Carlos, if you tell us, start by telling us what the circus industry was like in the 80s, which is when all this was born,
and how they put the methodology into practice.
Well, if you like, we start a little bit as you say with the background, the circus market in the 80s of the last century
was a tremendously competitive market, in which there was less and less business and also,
it was increasingly less profitable, it was tremendously expensive to operate,
because there were many animals, many professionals, a lot of transport, a lot of logistics.
In addition, there was a strong environmental pressure on the rights of animals,
a regulation that prevented the use and use of animals in urban areas.
But I would say that perhaps the most problematic thing in the 80s was that its clients, the children, passed the circle.
And of course, being in an activity sector in which your clients turn their backs on you,
is possibly the most complicated thing for your possibilities to grow.
Anyway, Carlos, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I think the circus industry at that time was bigger than it is now, right?
It was bigger, but it was very fragmented.
There were, as we will see, large, small circuses.
Well, I would say that it was more popularized.
I remember when I was little that circus figures, which I think no longer exist, were more popularized.
It has worked, thanks to new technologies, thanks to the type of leisure we all practice in general.
But in the 80s, this is when we started to see all this that we are discussing.
Let's do one thing, let's draw the value curves.
Let's start with the competitive factors or the variables of the circus industry.
What would they be?
Well, as we can see in the image, the variables of the circus industry were beyond the price, which is generally present in all the circus.
Perhaps the most relevant ones are whether there are many or few animals.
It was a show very based on the use of animals.
If there were stars, like lion keepers or great acrobats, possibly very high cost in terms of their payroll and so on.
If there was a lot of risk, if there was a lot or little fun, those were, as you can see in the image, the key variables.
And we see the situation at that time.
What existed?
Well, there were large circuses, which we see here in a red curve, national circuses.
Then there were smaller regional circuses that went through the towns, which, as we see in the image, had a value proposal somewhat lower in all its variables.
Okay, perfect.
So, as you tell us, because many of our students surely have not experienced it, what they competed in was basically that.
In addition to animals, to have recognized stars, who were famous people, who also made a lot of money.
And it was a very spectacular show in terms of risk, also in terms of fun, clowns, etc.
And also that the facilities were very complex, with many tracks or with several tracks.
That's what I was saying. It had a lot of trams, a lot of logistics, many tracks, because we had to change the show while we were picking up the animals.
We were riding the next act on another track.
It was something especially complex.
Complex and expensive. Perfect.
That's it.
Well, in that context, the Cirque du Soleil appears.
Just in 1984, two Canadians create the Cirque du Soleil.
And they do it inspired by a methodology that illustrates very well what the Blue Ocean strategy is.
I think the first thing these two people did was to realize, as I said, that the circus was not a show that attracted more and more children.
They realized that they could therefore focus their value proposition towards other segments of customers.
If we look at the image, the current customers of the circus in light gray were children.
And the most common thing is to think, as was thought in terms of the Red Ocean, of the competition customers.
This ellipse that we see in darker gray.
But in the end, they are still more children.
And the way to compete by stealing customers to the competition would be to lower the price or give more show, which in the end impacts a higher cost and therefore we are back in a price problem.
What they did was to think of a completely new segment of customers, what we call in this strategy the non-customers.
And what was the main non-customer segment that the circus had in the 80s?
As we see in the image, the adults, who are also the ones who have purchasing power to decide how to use their leisure.
I think it's really brilliant because the adults are always the ones who have paid.
But the price sensitivity is much lower in this case.
Because the adult circus pays the adults and it is almost a competition of theater or something like that, much more expensive shows.
Instead, I imagine that at the circus you go with all your children and you go with more people, so you can pay less money.
Thinking of the adults, what the circus proposed was a show, a playful and leisure activity, perfectly comparable to going to the theater or going out to dinner with friends.
And thinking of them as part of this methodology, thinking of the adults, what it did was apply the RICE matrix of reducing, increasing, creating and eliminating variables, as has already been explained above.
What did the Cirque du Soleil do? What did it reduce? Thinking, I insist, in a circus for adults.
It reduced humor and risk. It is true that there is humor and risk in the Cirque du Soleil, but its show is not permanently based on these two factors.
Reducing humor and risk and suspense reduces costs without a doubt.
Because it is not based on the triple deadly jump without a net, we greatly reduce the cost of professionals, insurance, etc.
What did they do in the line of reducing costs?
They eliminated the stars, the renowned professionals in the circus.
All the professionals are either amateur athletes or retired athletes.
This greatly reduces the operating costs without reducing the value, thinking of the adults.
They also eliminated the animals. The cost was enormous.
Acquiring animals, transporting them, keeping them, feeding them, veterinarians, brought enormous costs without bringing a great differentiation in value.
I don't know what the percentage will be in the total cost of the Cirque du Soleil circus with animals.
I don't know what it will be, but it has to be very high because buying them is the least.
Keeping them, transporting them, logistics, etc.
If you take all that away, you obviously take away a very important part of your costs.
Indeed, eliminating variables in a proposal has a certain risk.
In this case, they clearly eliminated it because, thinking of adults, the animals were not differentiated.
They eliminated more things and simplified the operation of the circus.
All that complication of slabs, cotton in the corridors, etc.
The multiple tracks, as we mentioned before.
All that was eliminated so that the show is much more glamorous and happens on a central track.
On the other hand, they thought of providing a value proposition for adults and increased this unique venue.
Not only is there a central track, but everything happens on a large carpet, unlike a traditional circus.
They also increased the price, having reduced its costs, thus increasing its margins.
They set a price in accordance with what we have discussed before.
It is a leisure option, perfectly comparable to going out to dinner in a theater.
Therefore, they have set these prices, 50, 60, 70 euros.
And finally, they created new variables, new proposals that provided more value, thinking of adults.
A theme, a kind of argument, a leading thread, at least in the shows of the circus.
A refined environment, which was lacking in the traditional circus.
Multiple productions, thinking of the client's loyalty and recurrence.
When the circus returns to society, we go back because the show is different.
And finally, artistic music and dance, which in many cases is of its own production,
other times it is of the Beatles or Michael Jackson.
Finally, as we see, a very different value proposition from what existed at that time.
The truth is that it is truly brilliant.
I have a question about the march, Carlos, I don't know if you have an answer.
The Cirque du Soleil was born from the circus industry?
I mean, were they people who came from the industry or not?
Yes, in fact, these two Canadians, Daniel Gautier and Gaela Liberté, were two circus personnel.
A fireman, a trapeze player, I think I remember.
Look, even more merit.
You are going to allow me to make a final summary because the truth is that it is a spectacular case.
Two professionals, as you say, who come from the circus industry, realize in the 80s
that the demand is falling, that children are increasingly less fond of the proposal of the circus.
And then what they do is think of a circus for adults, which has more purchasing power.
And what they do is create a totally different proposal,
applying the concept of value innovation that we have learned in the Blue Ocean strategy.
What they do is, to reduce costs, they simplify everything.
They take away the animals, which leads to a reduction in cost.
They simplify the whole structure of the tents, etc.
Because, as you said, there were many before and now they make a single tent.
They also take away stars, well-known people.
They reduce concepts like clowns, risk, etc.
And with all this, they reduce the production costs of the show.
But on the other hand, what they do is add, thinking of adults, other concepts.
A theme, music, dance...
It is an environment that has been refined, that you can almost compete with the theater or concerts, for example.
And of course, by incorporating all that, what it allows is to charge much more.
I don't know if the tickets cost 75 euros or something like that, or more.
I don't know, but in any case, I imagine that much more than in a traditional circus.
Therefore, thinking of non-clients, they have achieved value innovation.
They offer much more value to those non-clients, which are adults, and also to a lower cost for the company.
Therefore, I understand that it is the case that they always put, because it illustrates perfectly the methodology and the benefits.
And it is also an example of Océano Azul that has remained as Océano Azul and without competition practically throughout all these years, since 1984.
And with a lot of success, with some period of financial difficulty.
But in general, it has remained as a tremendously profitable Océano Azul and with a barrier of entry to competition that has made it continue today practically in its history.
The truth is that it has everything.
Well, in the next class we will analyze other cases of the Océano Azul strategy.
Thank you.